Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans :Programing language is a computer language that is used by developers to communicate with computers.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans:Java Runtime Environment (JRE)
an interpreter (java)
 a compiler (javac)
 an archiver (jar)
 a documentation generator (javadoc)
 Java Virtual Machine (JVM)

What is IDE?
Ans:An IDE stands for integrated development environment is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities
 to computer programmers for software development.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans:Mostly programmers use  IntelliJ IDE, Java, Eclipse or Netbeans.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans:Life cycle of a java program tells us what happens right from the point when we type source code in a text editor
to the point that source code is converted into machine code

what is class?
Ans:A class is the blueprint from which individual objects are created.

What is object?
Ans:A Java object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data. An object has a state and behavior.
The state of an object is stored in fields (variables),
while methods (functions) display the object's behavior. Objects are created from templates known as classes.
In Java, an object is created using the keyword "new".

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans:In computer programming, an entry point is where the first instructions of a program are executed,
and where the program has access to command line arguments.

Why main is static?
Ans:Java main method is always static, so that compiler can call it without the creation of an object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans:Object is the super class of every class in Java.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans:Path variable is used to set the path for all Java software tools like javac.exe,
and classpath variable is used to set the path for java classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans:An abstract class allows you to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override.
An interface only allows you to define functionality, not implement it.
And a class can extend only one abstract class, it can take advantage of multiple interfaces.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans:No we can't ,  An interface can be used to define a contract behavior and it can also act as a contract between
two systems to interact while an abstract class is mainly used to define default behavior for subclasses, it means
that all child classes should have performed the same functionality.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans:An access specifier is a defining code element that can determine which elements of a program are allowed
to access a specific variable or other piece of data. Different programming languages have their own protocols
for access specifiers,as well as defaults for some code elements including both individual variables and classes.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans:OOP concepts in Java are the main ideas behind Java's Object Oriented Programming. They are an abstraction,
encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism. ... Basically,
Java OOP concepts let us create working methods and variables, then re-use all or part of them without compromising security

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans: java.lang package

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans:Application Programming Interface, which is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
classes, interfaces, packages and also their methods, fields, and constructors.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans: Java doesn't allow multiple inheritance to avoid the ambiguity caused by it.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans:Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument
lists are different. It is similar to constructor overloading in Java, that allows a class to have more than one constructor
having different argument lists.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans:When an exception occurs, that exception occurred is handled by catch block associated with it. Every try block should
be immediately followed either by a catch block or finally block. A catch statement involves declaring the type of
exception you are trying to catch.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans:In the Java programming language, the keyword static indicates that the particular member belongs to a type itself,
rather than to an instance of that type.
This means that only one instance of that static member is created which is shared across all instances of the class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans:In Java, the final keyword can be used while declaring an entity. Using the final keyword means that the value can't
be modified in the future. This entity can be - but is not limited to - a variable, a class or a method.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans:Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used
to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
Ans:A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor is called when an
object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans:There can be multiple constructors in a class. However, the parameter list of the constructors should not be same.
This is known as constructor overloading

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans:the default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans:"this" is a keyword in Java which is used as a reference to the object of the current class, with in an instance
method or a constructor. Using this you can refer the members of a class such as constructors, variables and methods.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans:super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. super can be used to invoke immediate parent
class method. super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
Ans: Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Ans:No JVM is platform dependent

What version of java are you using?
Ans: "1.8.0_281"

What is JAR stand for ?
Ans: Java ARchive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans:JDK is a software development kit whereas JVM is an environment for executing bytecode.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans:JDK is a software development kit, and JRE is a software bundle that allows Java program to run,

What is compile time and run time?
Ans:Compile-time is the time at which the source code is converted into an executable code while the run time is the
time at which the executable code is started running.

What is heap?
Ans:The heap is a programming term that may be used to describe dynamically allocated memory.

How java manage it's memory?
Ans:In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management.
Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.
Thus, we are not required to implement memory management logic in our application.


What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans:String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread-safe and
synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not

What is Singleton class?
Ans:The singleton design pattern is used to restrict the instantiation of a class and ensures that only one
instance of the class exists in the JVM.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans:Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse
process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory

when to use transient variable in java?
Ans:Transient in Java is used to mark the member variable not to be serialized when it is persisted to streams of bytes.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans: In while loop, condition is evaluated first and then the statements inside loop body gets executed,
in do-while loop, statements inside do-while gets executed first and then the condition is evaluated.

What is Enum?
Ans:An enum is a special class that represents a group of constants unchangeable variables.

What is Iterator?
Ans:An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections,  It is called an "iterator" because
"iterating" is the technical term for looping. To use an Iterator, you must import it from the java.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans: they're taking the same memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans:The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in the String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans:In Java, constructor chaining is a sequence of invoking constructors upon initializing an object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Ans:A serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one
Garbage Collector thread for the Garbage Collector operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple Garbage Collector
threads for the Garbage Collector operation.

What is JIT stands for?
Ans: just-in-time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans: Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase
or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage
collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans:No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans:The Heap Space contains all objects are created, but Stack contains any reference to those objects.
Objects stored in the Heap can be accessed throughout the application

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans:Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to examine
or "introspect" upon itself, and manipulate internal properties of the program.

what is multithreading in java?
Ans:Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum
utilization of CPU. Each part of such program is called a thread. So, threads are light-weight processes within a process.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans:The synchronized keyword prevents concurrent access to a block of code or object by multiple threads

What is Framework?
Ans:Java framework is a platform  made by developers to create apps using the Java programming language.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans: Unit testing "JUnit, testNG" ,  regression testing.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans:JUnit does not support running parallel test simultaneously.
    JUnit framework was updated in Java 8.
    It helps to achieve test-driven programming while writing code.
    JUnit is supported by many languages now.

and TestNG can put test methods in Java groups.
    It processes Unit tests with passing parameters into the test methods.
    Making use of Threads enhances testing performance better as execution time is reduced.
    One of the limitation of JUnit is overcome as it supports execution of parallel tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Ans:Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks. Tasks may have multiple preceding
tasks and multiple succeeding tasks.

what is dependency injection in java?
Ans:dependency injection is a technique in which an object receives other objects that it depends on.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans:Static binding is a binding in which name can be associated with the class during compilation time , and it is also
called as early Binding. Dynamic binding is a binding in which name can be associated with the class during execution time
