Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Ans :Data structure is a particular way of storing and organizing information in a computer so that it can be retrieved
and used most productively.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Ans:Inserting , Deleting , Updating ,Sorting, Merging .

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Ans:Compiler Design
    Operating System
    DBMS
    Graphics
    Simulation
    Numerical Analysis
    Artificial Intelligence

what is an Array?
Ans:An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type. The length of an array is
established when the array is created.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Ans:Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.

what is LinkedList?
Ans:Linked List is a part of the Collection framework present in java. util package. This class is an implementation of
the LinkedList data structure which is a linear data structure where the elements are not stored in contiguous
locations and every element is a separate object with a data part and address part.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Ans:Array elements can be accessed randomly using the array index. Random accessing is not possible in linked lists.

what is queue?
Ans:Java Queue is an interface available in java.util package and extends java.util.Collection interface.
Just like Java List, Java Queue is a collection of ordered elements  but it performs insert and remove
operations differently. We can use Queue to store elements before processing those elements.

what is stack?
Ans:The stack is a linear data structure that is used to store the collection of objects. It is based on
Last-In-First-Out (LIFO). ... The push operation inserts an element into the stack and pop operation removes an
element from the top of the stack.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans:The Last-In, First-Out (LIFO)
 The First-In, First-Out (FIFO)

what is the order of complexity?
Ans:Generally, an algorithm has an asymptotic computational complexity.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Ans:Best searching technique for searching any element in an array is Linear search for a unsorted array where
no specific pattern is given.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans:linear

what is tree in data structure?
Ans:A tree is a nonlinear data structure, compared to arrays, linked lists, stacks and queues which are linear data3
structures. A tree can be empty with no nodes or a tree is a structure consisting of one node called the root and zero
or one or more subtrees.

what is graph in data structure?
Ans:A graph is a common data structure that consists of a finite set of nodes (or vertices) and a set of edges connecting them.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Ans:HashMap is non synchronized. It is not-thread safe and can't be shared between many threads without proper
synchronization code whereas Hashtable is synchronized.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
Ans:Answer:RDBMS = Array
    Network data model = Graph
    Hierarchical data model = Trees

How HashMap works in java?
Ans:HashMap in Java works on hashing principles. It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve
it in constant time  provided we know the key. In hashing, hash functions are used to link key and value in HashMap.
Objects are stored by calling put(key, value) method of HashMap and retrieved by calling get(key) method.
When we call put method, the hashcode() method of the key object is called so that the hash function of the map
can find a bucket location to store value object, which is actually an index of the internal array, known as the table.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Ans:ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal index.
This exception is thrown when the index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Ans:Manually.
    Arrays.copyOf()
    System.arraycopy()
    Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Ans:n array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. A linked list is a collection of objects known as
a node where node consists of two parts

What is DFS and BFS?
Ans:BFS stands for Breadth First Search. DFS stands for Depth First Search. 2. BFS(Breadth First Search) uses Queue
data structure for finding the shortest path. DFS(Depth First Search) uses Stack data structure.

What is Recursion?
Ans:Recursion is the technique of making a function call itself. This technique provides a way to break complicated
problems down into simple problems which are easier to solve.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Ans:In linear data structure, data elements are sequentially connected and each element is traversable through a single
run. In non-linear data structure, data elements are hierarchically connected and are present at various levels.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Ans:Big O Notation is a relative representation of an algorithm's complexity.